[dramatic piano music]
c0000001
♪ ♪
c0000002
RASCAL DOES NOT DREAM OF A DREAMING GIRL
c0000003
3 YEARS AGO
c0000004
FUTURE PLANS
c0000005
- Does everybody have one now?
all: Yes!
c0000006
All right, then.
c0000007
Let's try writing down all
the dreams we have
c0000008
for the future.
c0000009
GRADUATE GRADUATE BECOME A GOOD...
c0000010
GRADUATE MIDDLE SCHOOL
ENTER HIGH SCHOOL
c0000011
GRADUATE HIGH SCHOOL
BECOME A COLLEGE STUDENT
c0000012
GRADUATE COLLEGE
OPEN A CAKE SHOP
c0000013
- Ma'am, I finished mine!
- Me, too!
c0000014
- Same here.
c0000015
[indistinct chatter]
c0000016
FUTURE PLANS CLASS 4-1,
SHOKO MAKINOHARA
c0000017
DECEMBER 7TH
c0000018
- Gently follow the direction
of the fur.
c0000019
You're getting pretty good
at all of this, Makinohara.
c0000020
- Thanks.
But I'm so sorry.
c0000021
I said I wanted to adopt Hayate
but I haven't gotten around
c0000022
to telling my parents yet.
c0000023
- Then are your parents
really strict with you?
c0000024
- They're actually very kind.
c0000025
- If I told them I wanted
the cat home,
c0000026
I don't think they would
have any objections at all.
c0000027
That's why it's hard to ask.
c0000028
- Hmm?
c0000029
- Sorry about that.
c0000030
It doesn't make much sense,
does it?
c0000031
DECEMBER 8TH
c0000032
[indistinct chatter]
c0000033
- It's been a while since
Shoko-chan's come over, huh?
c0000034
- Mm-hmm.
[grunts]
c0000035
But she did mention she might
not be able to come by
c0000036
for a while.
c0000037
- Maybe she's going on a trip
c0000038
with her family for the holidays
or something.
c0000039
- What are your plans, Mai?
c0000040
- I still don't know
my full schedule.
c0000041
Although I do of course have
New Year's Day off at least.
c0000042
- But there's Christmas
c0000043
to think about before that,
right?
c0000044
I'd love to eat some
cake together with you.
c0000045
- No, Sakuta.
c0000046
You should celebrate that
with Kaede this year.
c0000047
- Christmas with
my little sister?
c0000048
- If you do I'll give you
a present in return.
c0000049
- The sexy kind?
c0000050
Ow, ow, ow, ow, ow!
c0000051
[exhales]
c0000052
- What's up with you, Sakuta?
c0000053
You have a giant grin
on your face.
c0000054
- Probably from Sakurajima
stepping on
c0000055
his foot or something like that.
c0000056
- You want me to come step
on your foot, too?
c0000057
- [groans]
c0000058
You've got it wrong.
c0000059
It's not because Mai stepped on
my foot or anything.
c0000060
[grunts]
c0000061
- Azusagawa, you really
are the epitome
c0000062
of a pubescent rascal.
- [chuckles]
c0000063
[door creaks]
- [giggles]
c0000064
You're bringing out the kotatsu!
c0000065
- We're eating hot pot.
c0000066
Can't do that without
a kotatsu, can we?
c0000067
- Sakuta, can you help me
for a minute?
c0000068
- Sure.
c0000069
[doorbell rings]
[grunts]
c0000070
Who's that?
c0000071
- Good evening.
It's me.
c0000072
- Wait, Shoko-san?
c0000073
- [gasping]
c0000074
- I'm sorry to come so suddenly
this late.
c0000075
I was wondering
if I could stay over.
c0000076
- B--big brother?
c0000077
- [gasps]
c0000078
- Care to explain this, Sakuta?
c0000079
- J--just calm down a sec, Mai!
c0000080
- Don't worry.
I'm perfectly calm.
c0000081
Now what's going on here?
c0000082
- I have no clue.
c0000083
I'm the one who wants
to ask that.
c0000084
- Then we'll simply have
to ask Shoko-san directly,
c0000085
won't we?
- Huh?
c0000086
Wait, Mai, the knife!
c0000087
You have the kitchen knife!
- [gasps]
c0000088
[bubbling]
c0000089
[groans]
c0000090
- Ah, that was so tasty.
c0000091
I'm truly sorry about this.
c0000092
I even made you treat me
to this dinner.
c0000093
I'll make all the meals
starting tomorrow, okay?
c0000094
-
Wait, starting tomorrow?
Like--
c0000095
- So you're planning on staying
for more than one night?
c0000096
- I don't have any other place
to go.
c0000097
- And how long are you planning
on staying?
c0000098
- Forever, if I could.
- Forever?
c0000099
- Thank you for the meal.
c0000100
Well, then,
make yourself at home.
c0000101
[door closes]
- Uh--
c0000102
- To start with,
who exactly are you?
c0000103
How are you and
the middle school Shoko-chan
c0000104
related to each other?
c0000105
- The both of them are me.
c0000106
We're Shoko Makinohara.
c0000107
I just suddenly grow older
every once in a while.
c0000108
- [grunts]
- Huh?
c0000109
- You heard right.
c0000110
I just age up like
this sometimes.
c0000111
- Do you think it's another form
of puberty syndrome, then?
c0000112
- It sure seems that way.
c0000113
I can't go home looking
like this, you see.
c0000114
That's why I end up
with no place I can go.
c0000115
- [gasps]
- Okay, then.
c0000116
Please stay over
at my place instead.
c0000117
- I appreciate it but I couldn't
possibly trouble you
c0000118
like that, Mai.
- So you're insinuating
c0000119
it's all right for you
to be troubling Sakuta, then?
c0000120
- Sakuta, am I troubling you?
- N--no, I wouldn't say that.
c0000121
It's more like you--
c0000122
- I mean, if you're truly
feeling satisfied
c0000123
in your relationship with Mai,
c0000124
you wouldn't have eyes for me,
right?
c0000125
- [gasps]
c0000126
- And you are satisfied, right?
c0000127
- Of course I am!
c0000128
- If that's settled,
c0000129
then there shouldn't
be any problem
c0000130
with me freeloading here, right?
c0000131
- That doesn't matter to me.
A no is still a no.
c0000132
- It's fine.
What's okay is okay.
c0000133
- No way.
c0000134
- It's no real problem even if
c0000135
something does happen, too.
c0000136
I mean, I'm quite fond
of Sakuta myself.
c0000137
- [spits]
c0000138
[coughing]
- [laughs]
c0000139
Geez, you're such a mess.
c0000140
There, there.
Are you all right?
c0000141
- [coughing]
- All right, then.
c0000142
If you insist on doing this,
then I will stay here as well.
c0000143
- Uh--
- Huh? Hold on, Mai!
c0000144
Wait a minute! Let's take
a time out and relax.
c0000145
Help me.
[speaking Japanese]
c0000146
- What?
- I crossed paths
c0000147
with Shoko-san again.
c0000148
- You want advice on how
to cheat?
c0000149
- Well, Shoko-san's actually
at my place right now.
c0000150
Mai happens to be as well.
c0000151
- You are not dragging me into
the middle of that blood bath.
c0000152
[phone receiver clicks
and beeps]
c0000153
- [exhales]
c0000154
DECEMBER 9TH
c0000155
- Sakuta, get up already.
c0000156
- [groans]
- Come on. Wake up.
c0000157
- Without my good morning kiss,
I'm stuck here.
c0000158
- Oh, yeah?
- [grunts]
c0000159
- Then I guess I'll be walking
to school all by myself.
c0000160
- Ah, I'll take over providing
the good morning kiss, then.
c0000161
- You will not.
- [gasps]
c0000162
But in our talk last night
you agreed with me that
c0000163
it was okay for us
to start living together.
c0000164
- No I did not.
c0000165
- You could always
just two-time them.
c0000166
Then you could level yourself up
from a rascal into a scum bag.
c0000167
- Knock it off with
the outlandish nonsense.
c0000168
So, is that book interesting?
c0000169
- Yes, incredibly.
c0000170
- It says,
"super string theory."
c0000171
Is that some theory that
involves Mai taking care
c0000172
of me in the future?
c0000173
- No, that would just
be deadbeat theory.
c0000174
- Now you're just messing
with me, right?
c0000175
[all laughing]
c0000176
- Sakuta, dead in
the eyes again today?
c0000177
- You know it.
c0000178
- Wha--you're going
home already?
c0000179
- I'm leaving early to take
my sister to the hospital
c0000180
for her check-up.
c0000181
- Then I'll see you
when I'm all finished.
c0000182
- Yeah.
c0000183
I'll just be hanging out in
the waiting room.
c0000184
[stammers]
c0000185
- [gasps]
c0000186
- Wait, Makinohara?
c0000187
- Ah, this is, um...
c0000188
- I think it's around
the time he bumps into
c0000189
my younger version.
c0000190
- The truth is I've always
had poor health
c0000191
and I've been hospitalized
many times starting from when I
c0000192
was in elementary school.
c0000193
- I see.
c0000194
- That's why it was hard for me
to bring up
c0000195
the Hayate situation
to my parents.
c0000196
- [gasps]
c0000197
- Because
of my physical condition,
c0000198
they always just say yes
to anything I ask them
c0000199
no matter what.
c0000200
Part of me is really happy they
do that but at the same time
c0000201
it's hard on me.
c0000202
It makes me feel so guilty
like I should apologize.
c0000203
- Your parents have probably
already noticed
c0000204
you feel that way.
c0000205
If I had to take a guess.
- Huh?
c0000206
- I have a question for you.
c0000207
How do you feel about your
mother and father exactly?
c0000208
- I love them!
I really do!
c0000209
- And have you ever
told them that?
c0000210
- Mm, I haven't.
c0000211
- For me it's like this.
c0000212
"I love you" is way nicer
to hear than "I'm sorry."
c0000213
And an "I really love you"
would put me over the moon.
c0000214
Someone once told me this.
- [gasps]
c0000215
- Hearing, "thank you,"
"you did your best,"
c0000216
and "I love you--"
c0000217
those three things
just can't be beat.
c0000218
That's why I don't think
you should be afraid
c0000219
of letting your parents
spoil you.
c0000220
- [gasps]
c0000221
[grunts]
c0000222
Then I...
c0000223
[cat chirps]
c0000224
- She said once she gets out
of the hospital
c0000225
she'll come and pick up Hayate.
- That's great news.
c0000226
- During the time when I
was speaking with
c0000227
the middle school Makinohara in
the hospital,
c0000228
were you existing in
my apartment by yourself
c0000229
the entire time, Shoko-san?
c0000230
- Huh. Who could say?
c0000231
At the very least,
no one else has observed me.
c0000232
So it remains uncertain.
c0000233
I guess you could call
me Schrodinger's Shoko-san.
c0000234
- I also wanted to ask about
your puberty syndrome.
c0000235
I wondered if it had anything
to do with your illness at all.
c0000236
- Well, yes. Probably.
c0000237
Truth is,
I actually have heart disease.
c0000238
[both gasping]
c0000239
Back when I
was in elementary school,
c0000240
Doctors said my condition
would make it difficult
c0000241
for me to live long enough
to graduate middle school.
c0000242
- [grunts]
c0000243
- So ever since then,
c0000244
my biggest dream was being able
to grow up and become an adult.
c0000245
I want to make it
to high school.
c0000246
I want to study at a college.
c0000247
I want to be a grown-up.
c0000248
So that's why I'm older.
c0000249
It's how my younger self
imagines her future.
c0000250
The one she's always
been dreaming about.
c0000251
At least that's what I think
it is.
c0000252
- [gasps]
c0000253
- Hey, big sis, how long are you
planning on staying over there?
c0000254
- Just a little more.
c0000255
But I'll be in touch
with you soon, okay?
c0000256
After listening to her story,
c0000257
I have no idea what
we should be doing.
c0000258
- Well, tomorrow at least,
c0000259
I'll swing by
the hospital again.
c0000260
- I'd appreciate that, Sakuta.
c0000261
- I'll see if Futaba will come.
c0000262
You can leave it to us.
c0000263
- [breathing deeply]
c0000264
DECEMBER 10TH
c0000265
- Let me confirm one thing.
c0000266
From what you've explained,
c0000267
middle school Shoko doesn't know
that she sometimes grows up.
c0000268
Am I understanding
that correctly?
c0000269
- Shoko-san told me
that she's never
c0000270
met Makinohara directly before,
so she' probably doesn't know.
c0000271
[knocking]
- Yes?
c0000272
- How are you feeling today?
c0000273
- Sakuta, you're here!
You really came by to visit me.
c0000274
- And I brought Futaba along
with me, too.
c0000275
- It's good to see you.
c0000276
- Yes, you, too!
c0000277
- I know this visit was sudden.
Is this okay?
c0000278
- Yes. In fact, more than okay.
c0000279
I'm happy you're here!
- I'm glad.
c0000280
- In the middle of studying?
c0000281
- No. It's perfect timing,
though.
c0000282
Can I ask you two for
a little bit of advice?
c0000283
both: Mm?
c0000284
- "Schedule for the future."
c0000285
- Is there something wrong
with it?
c0000286
- It's something everyone in
my class filled out when I
c0000287
was in fourth grade.
c0000288
I couldn't mention this last
time we talked
c0000289
but with my illness,
c0000290
if I'm not able to get
the heart transplant I need,
c0000291
it seems pretty unlikely
I'll be able
c0000292
to even live through
middle school.
c0000293
- A heart transplant.
c0000294
- That's why when the schedule
came up for the future,
c0000295
I had so many things I wanted
to write down.
c0000296
But I just couldn't bring myself
to write anything
c0000297
after graduating middle school.
c0000298
I told myself that I'd love
to fill it out someday.
c0000299
But each time I tried,
I couldn't.
c0000300
In the end I graduated
from elementary school
c0000301
without ever having completed
this assignment.
c0000302
-
But this is your handwriting,
isn't it?
c0000303
- Yes, but I definitely
didn't write those down.
c0000304
- And there's no way you maybe
just forgot you did it?
c0000305
- Mm-mmm.
c0000306
I looked at it prior
to my hospitalization.
c0000307
I'm certain that part
was not written there.
c0000308
- That really is strange.
c0000309
- So were all these things
you wanted
c0000310
to write down back then,
Shoko-chan?
c0000311
- It's slightly different.
c0000312
I'd say if anything,
c0000313
it's closer to what
I'd write down now.
c0000314
- Then what would you fill in
as continuations of that?
c0000315
-
Well first of all,
I'd like to go to college.
c0000316
It would be really nice
if I could find
c0000317
a wonderful boyfriend as well.
c0000318
And then we'd start
living together
c0000319
and if that led
to us getting married,
c0000320
it'd be the best!
c0000321
- While you're still in college?
- Yes.
c0000322
My parents got married
to each other while they
c0000323
were still in college.
c0000324
- Is it okay if I take
a quick picture of this?
c0000325
- Sure.
c0000326
- I'm going to spend some
more time thinking on it.
c0000327
[camera shutter clicks]
c0000328
For the time being,
c0000329
if we're going to define
the existence
c0000330
of the older Shoko-san...
c0000331
It would be that she showed up
with the intention to act upon
c0000332
the future schedule that
elementary school Shoko-chan
c0000333
wasn't able to write down on
the print-out.
c0000334
- That or she wants
to preemptively experience
c0000335
a future that may or may
not ever arrive, right?
c0000336
ORGAN DONOR CARD
c0000337
Then this is about all I
can contribute for now.
c0000338
- Ah.
c0000339
- So what are you going
to do about it, Sakuta?
c0000340
- Do about what?
c0000341
- Do about marrying Shoko-san.
- [gags]
c0000342
Whoa there, Mai.
c0000343
You're skipping
way too many steps.
c0000344
- Isn't it obvious the "meeting
the boy of my destiny"
c0000345
on that print-out schedule
is referring to you, Sakuta?
c0000346
And even more specifically,
c0000347
to when you first met
the high school Shoko-san
c0000348
two years ago?
- [groans]
c0000349
- If so, the current Shoko-san
is a continuation
c0000350
of that as a college girl.
c0000351
Considering that, it's fair
to assume she's here
c0000352
to marry you.
c0000353
DECEMBER 11TH
c0000354
[knocking]
- Can I come in?
c0000355
- Yes, go ahead.
c0000356
- You busy?
- No.
c0000357
Thanks for coming
to visit me again.
c0000358
- [gasps]
You put a little tree up.
c0000359
- Yes.
c0000360
But I'm still hoping I can
c0000361
be discharged before Christmas.
c0000362
And there's the illumination
at Enoshima.
c0000363
I hope I can go see it again
this year.
c0000364
- The illumination at Enoshima,
huh?
c0000365
- It's so beautiful.
I love it.
c0000366
Aren't you going to see
it together with Mai?
c0000367
- She said she's still unsure
c0000368
of what her work schedule
will be.
c0000369
- She really is busy, huh?
c0000370
Mm, so, um, would you maybe go
with me, then?
c0000371
- You want me to go with you?
c0000372
- Well, it doesn't have to be
on Christmas day or anything.
c0000373
We can also invite Rio
and Kaede.
c0000374
And then we can all go together.
c0000375
- Then if you get discharged
from the hospital,
c0000376
we can go celebrate with that.
c0000377
- Yes, I'm looking forward
to it!
c0000378
- Oh, by the way, Sakuta.
c0000379
About that thing from yesterday.
c0000380
- There's more now.
c0000381
- Yes, there is more.
c0000382
- Hmm.
c0000383
- I mean, I'm quite fond
of Sakuta myself.
c0000384
- So in the end,
c0000385
do I really have no choice
but to marry her?
c0000386
DECEMBER 12TH
c0000387
[grunts]
c0000388
- How is your fever now?
c0000389
- It's gotten pretty high.
Where's Mai?
c0000390
- She's already gone.
c0000391
She said she had
to go to work today.
c0000392
- Hey, Shoko-san.
- What is it?
c0000393
- Is the Shoko-san that's here
right now the same one
c0000394
that I met down
at Shichirigahama
c0000395
two years ago or--
c0000396
- I remember the Sakuta
from then.
c0000397
He had quite
the twisted personality.
c0000398
- Then I wanna thank you
for everything you did
c0000399
for me back then.
- Mm-mmm.
c0000400
If you're going to sleep,
do it properly in your bed.
c0000401
- [groans]
c0000402
I was really saved by you,
Shoko-san.
c0000403
- The one that was saved
was definitely me, Sakuta.
c0000404
Sakuta, what words
make you happy
c0000405
when people say them to you?
c0000406
For me, there's "thank you,"
"you did your best,"
c0000407
and "I love you."
c0000408
Those three are my favorite
to hear.
c0000409
[footsteps on sand]
c0000410
- [gasps]
c0000411
- I know that you did your best.
c0000412
- [groaning]
c0000413
Shoko-san?
c0000414
- Sorry to disappoint you.
It's just me.
c0000415
- Uh, I, uh--
c0000416
- You can make excuses
after you've recovered.
c0000417
I'm sure Shoko-san
was attentively nursing you
c0000418
all afternoon anyway.
c0000419
Are you feeling any better yet?
c0000420
- From this morning, yes.
c0000421
- A bath may be a bit much
c0000422
but change your clothes
at least.
c0000423
Come on.
- That's okay!
c0000424
I can do it by myself!
c0000425
It'd be bad if I got you sick
with this, Mai.
c0000426
- Let me do at least one thing
a girlfriend would do.
c0000427
- [groaning]
- [gasps]
c0000428
Sakuta, this is...
c0000429
- It started bleeding again
c0000430
the last time Shoko-san
came over.
c0000431
It's been in this state
ever since.
c0000432
- It doesn't hurt?
- Not now.
c0000433
- This is also puberty syndrome,
isn't it?
c0000434
- I think so.
c0000435
DECEMBER 13TH
c0000436
Futaba, you here?
c0000437
- Yes. Yes.
c0000438
He just walked in.
I'll hand him the phone.
c0000439
I told you not to go rope me
into a blood bath, did I not?
c0000440
- Huh?
c0000441
Hello?
- This is Sakuta, right?
c0000442
- What's going on?
c0000443
- I called to say you'll be
going on a date with me today.
c0000444
- No, thank you.
c0000445
- Are you really that afraid
of what Mai will do?
c0000446
- Why, yes, I am.
c0000447
- Just to let you know,
c0000448
this date will be beneficial
for Mai as well.
c0000449
- Are you saying that if I go on
this date with you,
c0000450
your puberty syndrome
will be resolved
c0000451
and Shoko-san can rest in peace?
- That's right.
c0000452
- If you're lying,
I'm gonna be pretty angry.
c0000453
- Let's meet up
at the Shichirigahama
c0000454
parking lot at 1:00 o'clock.
c0000455
- Okay, got it.
- Great. See you later.
c0000456
- [exhales]
c0000457
I'll tell Mai on my own
so just keep quiet about it.
c0000458
- I can't help but be curious
about what Shoko-san herself
c0000459
perceives her existence to be.
c0000460
- Is it not possible for her
to simply be the future self
c0000461
that the younger Makinohara
is dreaming of?
c0000462
- Shoko-san seems to be
somewhere around college age
c0000463
at the moment, right?
c0000464
What do you think happened
to the memories
c0000465
of the six to seven years
between them?
c0000466
- Maybe there's nothing.
c0000467
- If the theory I formulated
so far turns out to be true,
c0000468
it would mean that Shoko-san
is hiding something tremendous
c0000469
from you, Azusagawa.
- Huh?
c0000470
- That girl is...
c0000471
- [giggles]
c0000472
- Shoko-san,
are you okay physically?
c0000473
- I'm totally healthy.
c0000474
In other words, yes.
I'm A-Okay.
c0000475
- You don't need to play it up
or anything right now.
c0000476
- I'm only doing it to try
and liven up this date.
c0000477
But I appreciate you worrying
about me. Thank you.
c0000478
- Is this an area
that you're familiar with?
c0000479
- Well, yeah.
c0000480
- So when are you gonna
tell me where we're going?
c0000481
- [giggles]
c0000482
It's right here.
c0000483
- I don't flipping get it.
c0000484
- Before we get started today,
c0000485
I wanted to thank you both
for participating
c0000486
in our guided tour.
c0000487
Please, this way.
c0000488
[doors squeak open]
c0000489
- [gasps]
c0000490
- Please, head inside.
c0000491
We offer the opportunity
to wear a wedding dress,
c0000492
if you'd like.
c0000493
- I don't think
I should right now.
c0000494
- Why not?
You should go for it.
c0000495
- Mm, but it's--
c0000496
- Could I please make
the request?
c0000497
- Yes. Of course.
Come this way.
c0000498
- [laughs]
c0000499
Sorry to keep you waiting.
- [gasps]
c0000500
- your mouth is gaping open.
c0000501
- It's just you look
so beautiful,
c0000502
I was awestruck.
- If that's the case,
c0000503
the effort I put into picking
the perfect dress for you
c0000504
was more than worth it.
c0000505
- Now then,
please take your time.
c0000506
[door latches shut]
c0000507
- [grunts]
c0000508
Do you think a free guided tour
is enough to fulfill this wish?
c0000509
- That's something
you have to bring up
c0000510
with my younger self.
c0000511
- You say that but you already
c0000512
know the answer, don't you?
c0000513
Am I correct?
- [grunts]
c0000514
- That scar you have
on your chest.
c0000515
That must mean you were able
to get the heart transplant.
c0000516
- Yes.
c0000517
- So then, Shoko-san,
you came from the future, right?
c0000518
- [chuckles[
c0000519
- Are you mad?
c0000520
- It's fine.
c0000521
I'm honestly just relieved
about all of it.
c0000522
Makinohara is able
to receive the surgery
c0000523
she needs to recover.
c0000524
- Uh-huh.
And it'll happen soon, too.
c0000525
My little self will receive
her transplant.
c0000526
And with that she will be cured
of her heart disease.
c0000527
And same thing
with this puberty syndrome.
c0000528
Everything should be resolved by
the time Christmas comes
c0000529
to an end.
- Then...
c0000530
- When Christmas comes
to an end,
c0000531
so will the time I have
to spend together with you.
c0000532
So will you please give me
one last memory?
c0000533
- And what did you have in mind?
c0000534
- A memory of my first love.
c0000535
- I have no idea why you're
so fond of me, Shoko-san.
c0000536
I mean, there were a ton
of reasons for me
c0000537
to be attracted to you, but...
c0000538
- Well, for starters,
c0000539
you were the one who gave me
c0000540
the opportunity to raise Hayate.
c0000541
- That's nothing.
c0000542
- Also, when I was feeling
guilty about my parents,
c0000543
you were the one that taught me
it was better
c0000544
to tell them thank you
and I love you.
c0000545
But I'm sorry.
- [gasps]
c0000546
- When I was in my hospital bed
overcome with anxiety,
c0000547
you were the one who came
to visit me every day.
c0000548
And that's why my first love
has remained
c0000549
in my heart ever since
c0000550
and I've been unable
to share that with anyone else.
c0000551
And so I need you to take proper
responsibility for it, Sakuta.
c0000552
- What exactly should I
do,
then?
c0000553
- I'd like you
to spend Christmas Eve with me.
c0000554
Let's watch the illumination
at Enoshima together.
c0000555
- But that's--
- As far as your plans go,
c0000556
Kaede will be staying over
at your grandfather's starting
c0000557
on the 23rd.
- I dunno.
c0000558
- That's the first I've heard
of that.
c0000559
And besides--
- Then there's Mai.
c0000560
She'll be free
from early evening.
c0000561
- [grunts]
- Please decide.
c0000562
How you'll spend it.
Either with me or with Mai.
c0000563
- Shoko-san, I don't--
- You don't have
c0000564
to say anything.
- [grunts]
c0000565
- I will be waiting, though,
'kay?
c0000566
At 6:00 p.m. on the 24th.
c0000567
I'll be at the entrance
to Bentembashi,
c0000568
right by the dragon lantern.
c0000569
- How did your date
end up going?
c0000570
- Just like your
theory suggested.
c0000571
She had a scar from an operation
on her chest.
c0000572
- So you saw Shoko-san's
breasts, then.
c0000573
- For the record I did not make
her get naked to see it.
c0000574
But anyway, how did she manage
to come here from the future?
c0000575
- I don't think saying she
came here from the future
c0000576
is quite accurate.
c0000577
It would be better to say
c0000578
she arrived at the future.
c0000579
- What do you mean,
"Arrived at the future?"
c0000580
- When we visited Shoko-chan
together the other day,
c0000581
she was being whiny
for once unlike her usual self.
c0000582
She was even wishing
for her body
c0000583
to just stop growing altogether.
c0000584
- But when I talked to her
she told me that she wanted
c0000585
to show her parents how she'd
end up as an adult.
c0000586
- It's possible the Shoko-chan
that wishes to become an adult
c0000587
and the one who refuses
to grow up completely
c0000588
resulted in two existences
at odds with each other
c0000589
and that caused
her puberty syndrome then.
c0000590
- What do you mean by that?
c0000591
- First there's the Shoko-chan
that refuses to grow up.
c0000592
She's probably trying
desperately
c0000593
to stop her internal clock
from ticking forward.
c0000594
What if as a result the world
from her perspective
c0000595
has drastically slowed down
and everything in that world
c0000596
is moving in slow motion to her?
c0000597
What if we and the Shoko-chan
that wishes to become an adult
c0000598
observe that world
from the one we're experiencing?
c0000599
How would it appear relative
to us?
c0000600
- So we're talking
quantum physics again.
c0000601
My favorite subject.
- Not quite.
c0000602
This time it's about the theory
of relativity.
c0000603
It's like the story
of the fisherman
c0000604
that returns from Ryugu Palace
and several decades
c0000605
had passed on land.
c0000606
- So Shoko-san is kinda
like Urashima Taro.
c0000607
- That's right.
c0000608
Time has moved along
at a much faster pace
c0000609
for Shoko-chan who refused
to grow up.
c0000610
And as a result she arrived at
the future long before we did.
c0000611
[door opens]
- I'm home.
c0000612
- Ah, big brother.
Welcome home.
c0000613
Yep, he literally just
walked through the door.
c0000614
Sure. I got it.
See you later.
c0000615
- Who was that just now?
c0000616
- Oh, Dad just called.
c0000617
He was saying that Grandpa
and Grandma
c0000618
had been really wanting
to see me.
c0000619
- [gasping]
c0000620
- [chuckles]
By the way,
c0000621
Mai called here not all
that long ago, too.
c0000622
She wants you to pick her up
at the train station
c0000623
around 9:00 o'clock.
c0000624
Apparently she has something
she wants to talk about.
c0000625
- Something like--
c0000626
- I do have to ask
that you keep today's chat
c0000627
a secret from others.
c0000628
If it leads
to the future changing,
c0000629
I might not have my surgery
and that'd be awful.
c0000630
[indistinct chatter]
c0000631
- The film shoot is going well
and moving at a good pace.
c0000632
So for now I don't have anything
planned from the afternoon on.
c0000633
- [grunts]
- That's why on the 24th,
c0000634
we're going on a date.
- [grunts]
c0000635
- How about the illumination
at Enoshima?
c0000636
- [gasps]
c0000637
- I'd like to see the jellyfish
at the aquarium.
c0000638
- Te exhibit being advertised on
the trains lately?
c0000639
- Yeah, that.
c0000640
I got kinda curious after
seeing them every day.
c0000641
- I didn't know you
liked jellyfish.
c0000642
- I'm pretty sure I'd like them
c0000643
if I got to see them with you,
Mai.
c0000644
- Ah.
c0000645
Then one I've finished my work
for the day,
c0000646
I'll head straight over.
c0000647
How does meeting in front
of the aquarium at 6:00 sound?
c0000648
- Great.
c0000649
DECEMBER 14TH
- Great.
c0000650
DECEMBER 14TH
c0000651
- [chuckles]
c0000652
- Sakuta, something good happen
to you?
c0000653
- Huh?
c0000654
- 'Cause I saw you grinning.
c0000655
- But I think I'm the one who
should be asking you that, Koga.
c0000656
- Huh? How come?
c0000657
- Your upper arms look
a little chubbier.
c0000658
- [gasps]
You're the worst, Sakuta!
c0000659
I can't believe ya!
- [chuckles]
c0000660
Sorry.
Is it too late to visit?
c0000661
- No.
c0000662
- I'll make sure to get here
a bit earlier tomorrow, though.
c0000663
Mm?
c0000664
There's another new entry.
c0000665
- There is, yes.
c0000666
Um, Sakuta.
c0000667
My health hasn't been doing
the best.
c0000668
The symptoms are being
controlled with medication
c0000669
for now but it won't work
for me in the long term.
c0000670
- I see.
c0000671
- Yes. So that's why...
c0000672
I'd like to ask that you
don't come to visit me anymore.
c0000673
- No way.
c0000674
- [gasps]
c0000675
- I'll come tomorrow
and the day after that, too.
c0000676
Well, there might be some days
I can't come because of work.
c0000677
But for the most part
until you're discharged,
c0000678
I'll visit you every day.
c0000679
- But I--I will...
c0000680
I will...
c0000681
- [grunts]
c0000682
Makinohara, you really gave
it your best.
c0000683
A truly valiant effort.
c0000684
- [sniffles]
Sakuta.
c0000685
The truth is all that--
c0000686
all that I ever wished for all
this time was to not have
c0000687
an illness at all!
c0000688
Why did it have to be me?
c0000689
It's not fair when everyone
else gets to keep living!
c0000690
I just...
c0000691
- I know these days have been
so long and hard for you
c0000692
and that you've been doing
your best.
c0000693
But it's okay now.
c0000694
You don't have to do
it on your own.
c0000695
I'll be here tomorrow, too.
c0000696
And the next day.
c0000697
That is a promise.
c0000698
- You really mean that?
c0000699
[both gasping]
c0000700
[groaning]
c0000701
- [gasps]
c0000702
Makinohara?
c0000703
Makinohara!
c0000704
- Makinohara's condition
is critical.
c0000705
- Confirm with
the operating room, stat.
c0000706
- OR's here.
- It'll be okay, Shoko.
c0000707
- Vitals?
- [gasping]
c0000708
[all speaking at once]
c0000709
Ow, damn!
c0000710
[gasping]
c0000711
[grunting]
c0000712
What's going on?
c0000713
[grunts]
c0000714
Why does this have
to happen right now?
c0000715
[grunting]
c0000716
Could it be possible...
c0000717
That my...
c0000718
[gasping]
c0000719
- Your heart is racing
right now, isn't it?
c0000720
- Could you not get
me worked up, please?
c0000721
- It's the same for me,
you know.
c0000722
When I'm here with you,
my heart races.
c0000723
- I mean it.
c0000724
It's bad for my scar,
so please stop.
c0000725
- It'll be all right.
c0000726
I'm certain it will heal.
c0000727
Rest assured the wound
in your heart
c0000728
and the wound on your chest,
I'm going to heal both of them.
c0000729
- [gasps]
c0000730
- I will make sure of it.
[giggles]
c0000731
- [groans]
c0000732
- Hi, Sakuta.
- [grunts]
c0000733
Shoko-san.
c0000734
- I got a phone call saying
you suddenly collapsed.
c0000735
It was quite a shock.
c0000736
- [groans]
- Hmm?
c0000737
- I was just dreaming.
c0000738
It was about when I first
met you a few years ago.
c0000739
- Ah.
c0000740
- Then I remembered
this happened before.
c0000741
Where this scar showed up across
my chest and...
c0000742
Shoko-san.
c0000743
The heart that's inside
of your chest,
c0000744
it's actually my heart,
isn't it?
c0000745
- [gasps]
c0000746
[grunts]
c0000747
I knew you'd probably figure
it out eventually.
c0000748
I was--I was given
a future by you, Sakuta.
c0000749
- [gasps]
c0000750
- Just now,
what did you mean?
c0000751
[rain pattering]
c0000752
- In ten days,
c0000753
meaning on the 24th of December,
c0000754
on that day in the afternoon
it begins to snow.
c0000755
While Sakuta is on the way
to the location that he promised
c0000756
to meet up with you, Mai,
c0000757
he was involved in
a bad traffic accident due
c0000758
to the inclement weather.
c0000759
- But how could you know
that would happen?
c0000760
- That would be because I
came here from the future.
c0000761
- [gasps]
c0000762
[gasps]
c0000763
- It's the truth.
c0000764
- Sakuta was transported
to the hospital.
c0000765
He never regained consciousness.
c0000766
Soon after that he
was declared to be brain dead.
c0000767
And then when they went through
Sakuta's belongings,
c0000768
they found his donor card.
c0000769
Because of that,
c0000770
I was miraculously able
to receive
c0000771
a heart transplant in time.
c0000772
- [grunts]
I see.
c0000773
- I found out about everything
after the operation.
c0000774
When I went to tell Sakuta
my operation was successful...
c0000775
It was Mai that ended up
telling me what had transpired.
c0000776
So please, drop your plans
and have a nice,
c0000777
quiet at-home Christmas date
this year.
c0000778
- But that means--
- It's going to be fine.
c0000779
I know how it seems but my
young self has a bit of time.
c0000780
Please have some faith
in modern medicine.
c0000781
- [grunts]
c0000782
- Now, it's dangerous
for me to stay
c0000783
in this hospital for too long.
c0000784
So I'll go ahead and head back.
c0000785
And Mai, I trust you
to take care of him.
c0000786
[train pattering]
c0000787
- I wish it was all a lie.
c0000788
- So Mai, listen.
c0000789
- You should know I have
no intention of breaking up.
c0000790
- [grunts]
c0000791
- We have to change plans
c0000792
for our Christmas Eve date,
though.
c0000793
Nodoka will be away doing a show
so we can spend it at my place,
c0000794
just the two of us.
c0000795
And for New Years we'll do
our shrine visit together.
c0000796
It'll be problematic with all
the people around on
c0000797
the day itself so maybe around
the end of winter break?
c0000798
- That sounds good.
c0000799
- In February I'll make you
some chocolate
c0000800
for Valentine's day.
c0000801
Come spring I'm going
to be graduating high school
c0000802
but I'll be a strict tutor
so brace yourself for that.
c0000803
And then a year after
that we'll be going
c0000804
to the same college together.
c0000805
That's why...
c0000806
I want you to choose
a future with me, Sakuta.
c0000807
That is my request to you.
c0000808
- [grunts]
c0000809
- I won't stay over tonight.
c0000810
- Right.
c0000811
- Well, goodnight.
c0000812
- Goodnight.
Sleep well.
c0000813
[exhales]
c0000814
[melancholic music]
c0000815
♪ ♪
c0000816
DECEMBER 18TH
c0000817
[indistinct chatter]
c0000818
[train wheels clacking]
c0000819
No club?
c0000820
How rare.
c0000821
- I
saw you walking home
so I decided
c0000822
to skip activities today
and take a break.
c0000823
- Are you confessing your love?
c0000824
- Azusagawa, have you
been avoiding me lately?
c0000825
- [grunts]
c0000826
You're imagining it.
c0000827
- Just so you know,
c0000828
I'm aware that you collapsed
on Sunday.
c0000829
And also about how Shoko-chan
is now in the ICU.
c0000830
I went to
the hospital yesterday.
c0000831
- I see.
c0000832
So you already have an idea.
c0000833
- I
thought about all
the possibilities.
c0000834
At this point it's become clear
that something happened
c0000835
to your scar every time
Shoko-san showed up.
c0000836
- You're amazing.
c0000837
- I'm assuming that Shoko-chan
and Shoko-san are unable
c0000838
to see each other due
to their quantum properties.
c0000839
However you've interacted
directly with Shoko-san
c0000840
several times despite sharing
a portion of the same existence.
c0000841
Currently there are two copies
of your heart present which
c0000842
aren't supposed to be able
to exist simultaneously
c0000843
and that's why you have
that scar running across
c0000844
your chest, isn't it?
c0000845
- [exhales]
c0000846
She said I was gonna get
run over by a car on the 24th.
c0000847
- And Sakurajima knows about all
of this?
c0000848
- Yes. She heard everything
together with me.
c0000849
- It's not really my place
to say too much more
c0000850
but you two should really talk
it out.
c0000851
- Yeah, you're right.
c0000852
- Azusagawa.
c0000853
I don't--
c0000854
Want this.
c0000855
[train wheels clacking]
c0000856
- How's your exam
studying going?
c0000857
- You won't wear the bunny girl
outfit while you tutor me
c0000858
so unfortunately
my progress stalled.
c0000859
- If I wore a bunny girl outfit
your progress would stall in
c0000860
a different way, wouldn't it?
c0000861
- I might make progress
somewhere else, though.
c0000862
- Dummy.
c0000863
- So Mai, listen.
c0000864
- Oh, quick question
about Kaede.
c0000865
- Uh--
- Didn't she mention she wanted
c0000866
to get a haircut before going
to see her grandparents?
c0000867
- Yeah.
c0000868
- There's a makeup artist I know
c0000869
that has a salon in Chigasaki.
c0000870
If Kaede's up for it,
we should take her there.
c0000871
- Oh, really?
c0000872
- If she's open
to going Sunday afternoon,
c0000873
I can tag along.
So could you ask her for me?
c0000874
- Sure. Got it.
c0000875
So, I wanted to--
- [gasps]
c0000876
Looks like my break is about
to end.
c0000877
I'll call you again tomorrow.
See you.
c0000878
[phone beeping]
c0000879
- [grunts]
c0000880
DECEMBER 21ST
c0000881
- I think it might be nice
to lighten up this area
c0000882
a bit more.
- Yeah.
c0000883
- What are you doing here,
Toyohama?
c0000884
- I had an appointment here
today, too. Problem?
c0000885
Anyway, the Christmas Eve
situation.
c0000886
- Huh?
- I'm heading straight home
c0000887
after my show is over.
- Don't worry.
c0000888
We'll make sure that we
leave enough cake for you.
c0000889
- That's not what
I'm worried about.
c0000890
- Chicken, then?
c0000891
- [exhales sharply]
The world much be such
c0000892
a blissful place for you.
- What are you saying?
c0000893
- What I'm saying is that my
big sister is looking forward
c0000894
to spending Christmas together
with you.
c0000895
Like thinking about what
to cook,
c0000896
which store to buy
the cake from,
c0000897
even what kind of clothes
she should wear.
c0000898
- [exhales]
c0000899
Imagining her doing all that
is so cute.
c0000900
- If you make big sis cry,
I'll never forgive you.
c0000901
- We're all finished.
[bot gasping]
c0000902
- How's it look?
c0000903
- I think it looks good.
c0000904
- It doesn't look like I
got carried away with it?
c0000905
- If we're talking about getting
carried away,
c0000906
that would be more like this.
- But I'm totally not, though!
c0000907
- Nodoka, I'm sorry to ask this,
c0000908
but do you think you could
take Kaede back home?
c0000909
- Hmm? Something come up,
big sis?
c0000910
- There's something I
promised Sakuta after this.
c0000911
- [grunts]
c0000912
Kaede, are you okay
to go home without me?
c0000913
- Big brother, just how old
do you think I am, exactly?
c0000914
- Then I guess it'll be fine.
c0000915
It's good to see you slowly gain
independence from your brother.
c0000916
- Is that supposed to be
a dig at me?
c0000917
- Toyohama, I want you
to flourish
c0000918
as a sister-obsessed idol.
c0000919
Take good care of Mai.
c0000920
- Huh? What's that supposed
to mean?
c0000921
[train wheels clacking]
c0000922
- Hey, so Mai,
where exactly are we going?
c0000923
Brings back memories, though.
c0000924
We went all the way
to Ogaki together, didn't we?
c0000925
A whole six months ago.
c0000926
- Which one of these trains
will take us the furthest?
c0000927
- How far are you thinking?
c0000928
- Really far.
c0000929
I want us to keep
transferring trains
c0000930
and go further than that day.
- Mm.
c0000931
Considering the time,
c0000932
Ogaki looks like
the furthest possible.
c0000933
- If we ran out of trains,
c0000934
we can spend the night in
a new city.
c0000935
- In the same room?
c0000936
- Sure, if that's
what you'd prefer.
c0000937
- This whole idea sounds like
a dream.
c0000938
- And then in the morning
we'll plan to head out again.
c0000939
We'll go as far
as we can forever.
c0000940
Very, very far.
c0000941
- That sounds like
a seriously good time.
c0000942
But this is all
an elaborate joke, right?
c0000943
- I should ask you that.
c0000944
You're the one who needs
to stop joking around!
c0000945
Don't say goodbye to Nodoka
and Kaede like
c0000946
it's the last time!
Stop!
c0000947
Something's seriously wrong
with you!
c0000948
Don't just give up
without asking.
c0000949
Don't decide all by yourself!
c0000950
What am I to you, Sakuta?
c0000951
- My love.
c0000952
- Then let me bear it, too.
c0000953
The weight of Shoko-chan's life!
c0000954
So please, I'll carry
it with you forever!
c0000955
Please, I
just need you here
with me!
c0000956
Just--just stay right by my side
until Christmas is over!
c0000957
Get on a train with me
and let's go as far as we can!
c0000958
- It really would be fun, but...
c0000959
But I can't do that.
- Why not?
c0000960
- I still have school tomorrow.
c0000961
- You can be absent!
c0000962
- Besides, you have work
again tomorrow, don't you?
c0000963
- I don't care about that!
c0000964
It means nothing when I think
about losing you, Sakuta!
c0000965
- You know, I really
do love you, Mai.
c0000966
You always had a full schedule.
c0000967
So it's a shame we couldn't go
on that many dates together.
c0000968
But the usual Mai is who
I always wanted to be with.
c0000969
- [whimpers]
- And that's the Mai that
c0000970
I'm completely in love with.
c0000971
- Fine, then.
- Huh?
c0000972
- Fine!
c0000973
As long as you stay alive,
c0000974
I don't care if you hate me!
c0000975
Just please stay
with me like this
c0000976
until Christmas is over!
c0000977
And then you can hate me
all you want!
c0000978
- That's impossible.
- What does that mean?
c0000979
- There's no way that I
could ever hate you, Mai.
c0000980
- [inhales sharply]
c0000981
How come?
c0000982
Why?
c0000983
[crying]
c0000984
- I'll always love you, Mai,
no matter what happens.
c0000985
- You liar.
c0000986
- I will love you forever.
That's a promise.
c0000987
- Sakuta, you liar.
c0000988
I say that,
but I'm the real liar.
c0000989
I really don't want you
to hate me.
c0000990
Please don't hate me, okay?
c0000991
[crying]
c0000992
- Hello.
Welcome home, Sakuta.
c0000993
Is Mai staying
at her place again today?
c0000994
- Uh-huh.
c0000995
Where's Kaede?
c0000996
- She's already resting.
c0000997
- Shoko-san, listen.
c0000998
[shudders]
c0000999
I didn't wanna
make Mai cry like that.
c0001000
It was awful.
c0001001
I can't do it again.
c0001002
I don't wanna see her like that.
c0001003
That's why, Shoko-san, I--
c0001004
- Yes? What is it?
c0001005
- I'm sorry, Shoko-san.
c0001006
I want to live.
c0001007
I wanna stay with Mai forever.
c0001008
To spend the future with her.
c0001009
- I'm the one who needs
to apologize.
c0001010
I'm sorry I forced you to make
an impossible choice.
c0001011
If I'd only found a way
to do better,
c0001012
then I could have avoided
putting you through
c0001013
so much suffering.
c0001014
- Don't say that!
c0001015
[gasps]
c0001016
- It's not your fault, Sakuta.
c0001017
You put up a valiant effort.
- But I...
c0001018
- You answered me properly.
c0001019
- [whimpers]
c0001020
- That's why you need
to go make Mai happy.
c0001021
- [whimpering]
c0001022
DECEMBER 24TH
c0001023
- Well, today marks the end
of our happy
c0001024
and somewhat embarrassing days
living together.
c0001025
- Shoko-san.
c0001026
- See you later.
[giggles]
c0001027
- [gasps]
c0001028
[grunting]
c0001029
I'll be back.
c0001030
- Let me ask all of you.
c0001031
When you reflect back
on this year,
c0001032
what stands out the most to you?
c0001033
- It's cold today.
- Yeah, really cold.
c0001034
- Crazy, huh?
c0001035
[door slides open]
c0001036
- Excuse me, Sakuta.
- [gasps]
c0001037
- I have a message
to give to you.
c0001038
Shoko's mother said that she
wanted you to come visit Shoko.
c0001039
- Sorry for all the trouble.
- It's nothing.
c0001040
[door hisses]
c0001041
[gasps]
c0001042
- I know that you did your best.
c0001043
You put up a valiant effort.
c0001044
- [whimpers]
c0001045
She really is amazing.
c0001046
Even now Makinohara
is doing her best.
c0001047
[phone receiver clicks]
c0001048
It's me.
c0001049
Mai.
c0001050
I--
- Last night, I had a dream.
c0001051
We were going to the shrine
for New Year's.
c0001052
And you wouldn't stop bragging
about how you swore
c0001053
to the gods that you were going
to make me happy no matter what.
c0001054
- That does sound like something
I'd say.
c0001055
- Yes.
c0001056
It's just like you to lie
c0001057
in my dreams like
in real life.
c0001058
- [grunts]
c0001059
- Sakuta, I will never let
myself forget about you.
c0001060
You will be a part
of me forever.
c0001061
- [grunts]
Mai, I--listen.
c0001062
[coin clinks]
c0001063
[phone beeps]
c0001064
[grunts]
c0001065
[phone hangs on receiver]
c0001066
[indistinct chatter]
c0001067
[dramatic piano music]
c0001068
♪ ♪
c0001069
[engine revving]
[tires squealing]
c0001070
[gasps]
c0001071
Why didn't it--is it supposed
to be at the next stoplight?
c0001072
- You can see the sea candle.
So pretty.
c0001073
♪ ♪
c0001074
- [gasps]
c0001075
- How about the illumination
at Enoshima?
c0001076
- Please go with me.
c0001077
Let's watch the illumination
in Enoshima together.
c0001078
- [gasps]
c0001079
Could it be that from
the very beginning, Shoko-san...
c0001080
[breathing heavily]
c0001081
She's crazy!
c0001082
Shoko-san is out of her mind!
c0001083
She knew that I would go to Mai.
c0001084
She knew from the beginning!
c0001085
That's why she said--
c0001086
- At 6:00 o'clock p.m. on
the 24th,
c0001087
I'll be at the entrance
to Bentembashi
c0001088
right by the dragon lantern.
c0001089
- Because she knew!
c0001090
She knew I would never
show up there!
c0001091
- Everything should be resolved
very soon,
c0001092
by the time Christmas comes
to an end.
c0001093
If I'd only found a way
to do better.
c0001094
See you later.
[giggles]
c0001095
- Why would you do all that?
c0001096
Something has to be seriously
wrong with your mind, Shoko-san!
c0001097
[breathing heavily]
c0001098
- Hey, watch out!
That's dangerous!
c0001099
- This can't be how it ends!
c0001100
I'm begging! Let me get there
before it's too late!
c0001101
[tires squealing]
c0001102
- Sakuta, no!
c0001103
- Sakuta!
c0001104
[thuds]
c0001105
[tires squealing]
c0001106
[all gasping]
c0001107
-
What the--
c0001108
- [groaning]
c0001109
[gasps]
c0001110
Huh?
c0001111
[gasps]
c0001112
[gasping]
c0001113
[shuddering]
c0001114
[gasping]
c0001115
- My daughter. Mai.
c0001116
Is she really...
c0001117
- We did everything
that we could.
c0001118
I'm so sorry.
- [gasps]
c0001119
[whimpering]
c0001120
My... my girl.
c0001121
Give her back!
c0001122
[crying]
Give her back!
c0001123
[wailing]
c0001124
- Why?
c0001125
Why?
c0001126
Why didn't you protect
my big sister like you
c0001127
were supposed to, Sakuta?
c0001128
How come?
c0001129
Why did she--why her?
c0001130
[crying]
c0001131
- I'm sorry.
c0001132
I'm sorry.
c0001133
If I...
c0001134
Was the one that died...
c0001135
[door creaking]
c0001136
I
see.
c0001137
That's right.
c0001138
Since my life was saved,
that means Shoko-san...
c0001139
[gasps]
c0001140
c0001141
[grunts]
c0001142
[gasps]
c0001143
In the end...
c0001144
I couldn't protect anyone.
c0001145
[gasps]
c0001146
[doorbell ringing]
c0001147
[cat purring]
c0001148
[cat meows]
c0001149
- The door's unlocked.
c0001150
DECEMBER 25TH
c0001151
- Sakuta, you here?
We're coming in!
c0001152
Sakuta.
- [gasps]
c0001153
- We saw the accident on
the news.
c0001154
- We've been trying
to call you nonstop.
c0001155
-
Sorry to worry you.
c0001156
- [gasps]
c0001157
- You have four new messages.
c0001158
First message.
c0001159
7:03 a.m.
c0001160
- Big brother, it's not real,
right?
c0001161
Tell me it's a lie!
c0001162
There's no way
that could happen to Mai!
c0001163
- Hand me the phone.
Sakuta, if you get this message,
c0001164
please call us.
c0001165
- You can call your family on
the way, okay?
c0001166
Let's go, Sakuta.
c0001167
- Where?
c0001168
- Photos and videos
of the accident scene
c0001169
are making the rounds
on social media now.
c0001170
- You showed up in a few
of them, too.
c0001171
- I see.
c0001172
- You should come stay over
at my place for a while.
c0001173
I predict the media's going
to have this place surrounded.
c0001174
THE LATE MAI SAKURAJIMA
MEMORIAL SERVICE
c0001175
THE LATE MAI SAKURAJIMA
FUNERAL SERVICE
c0001176
DECEMBER 28TH
c0001177
- I'm here at a funeral home
in Tokyo.
c0001178
In the rain that started
to fall early afternoon,
c0001179
Actress Mai Sakurajima's funeral
service is currently being held.
c0001180
- Many of our viewers may
already be aware
c0001181
of the situation,
but four days ago,
c0001182
on December the 24th,
c0001183
Actress Mai Sakurajima was
involved in a traffic accident
c0001184
and has passed away.
c0001185
This is real, isn't it?
c0001186
Actually, the day before
the accident, I--
c0001187
- I've never done something
like this.
c0001188
So there's a lot
I'm not confident about.
c0001189
- But Mai, this boy we're
talking about must be completely
c0001190
wrapped around your finger,
right?
c0001191
- And just what kind of person
do you think I am?
c0001192
Though I suppose I do have
the upper hand.
c0001193
- [laughs]
I knew it.
c0001194
- But still, I'm sure I love him
more than he loves me.
c0001195
- Huh? Is that okay to say?
c0001196
He'll probably end up
seeing this, too, you know.
c0001197
- [gasps]
c0001198
[screaming]
c0001199
[children laughing]
c0001200
Please save her.
c0001201
c0001202
Someone.
c0001203
Please save Mai.
c0001204
It doesn't matter who.
c0001205
[gasps]
c0001206
Please save Mai.
c0001207
Somehow, please!
c0001208
I beg you!
[sniffles]
c0001209
Please!
c0001210
[crying]
c0001211
- Please stand up, Sakuta.
c0001212
- [gasps]
c0001213
- Saving Mai is supposed
to be your job.
c0001214
Isn't it, Sakuta?
Or am I wrong?
c0001215
- How? How are you still here,
Shoko-san?
c0001216
- I see.
c0001217
You don't know about it yet, do
you?
c0001218
Here inside my chest.
c0001219
The heart that's beating on
is Mai's.
c0001220
- Huh?
c0001221
- This information
was never made public.
c0001222
But that night after
the accident,
c0001223
Mai coincidentally became
my donor instead.
c0001224
- Wait, she had a donor card,
too?
c0001225
- Yes.
- But then,
c0001226
that would mean
the future's different.
c0001227
- Come on, now.
c0001228
Let's go save Mai.
c0001229
- What do you mean?
Where to?
c0001230
- Back to the past, of course.
c0001231
- But that would be--
- It's possible.
c0001232
You can leave it to me.
c0001233
There's no need to worry.
You can relax.
c0001234
Since today is Mai's
funeral service,
c0001235
nobody's going to be here.
c0001236
- Why the nurse's office?
c0001237
- A bed is required
to return to the past.
c0001238
- [grunts]
c0001239
[gagging]
c0001240
Shoko-san, is this--
- It's plum soda for adults.
c0001241
- [grunts]
c0001242
- Sakuta, you already know
it's possible, don't you?
c0001243
The future actually exists
pretty close by.
c0001244
And I'm also from the future.
c0001245
- But in your case,
c0001246
isn't time travel something
you're able to do as part
c0001247
of your puberty syndrome?
c0001248
- Yes.
c0001249
The entire reason my younger
self developed puberty syndrome
c0001250
in the first place
was her anxiety
c0001251
about the future.
c0001252
[bed creaks]
c0001253
But this moment that
you're experiencing now
c0001254
where you and I are speaking
like this wouldn't
c0001255
be called the present.
- Huh?
c0001256
- And you're the one
that caused this.
c0001257
Do you have any clue why
that might be?
c0001258
- [groans]
c0001259
- It's the same thing that
happened with my younger self.
c0001260
There was a time
when you refused
c0001261
your own future, wasn't there?
c0001262
- I want you to choose a future
with me, Sakuta.
c0001263
How come?
- I want to live.
c0001264
- [exhales]
c0001265
- It looks like you have
a pretty good idea of when.
c0001266
- I mean...
c0001267
- You should properly
acknowledge what you're feeling.
c0001268
Stop trying to ignore
the weak self within you
c0001269
that refused your own future.
- [grunts]
c0001270
- Just have faith in
that weakness.
c0001271
It's the first step to seeing
this moment as the future.
c0001272
If we're in the future,
c0001273
then you can travel
to the present, Sakuta.
c0001274
And it would even be possible
to save Mai.
c0001275
- Shoko-san.
- What is it?
c0001276
- I want so badly
to make Mai happy.
c0001277
- And that's doable.
c0001278
- That's why before
I do anything,
c0001279
there's something I need
to tell you.
c0001280
I also really, really want you
to stay alive.
c0001281
- Yes.
c0001282
- I hope and pray for it.
c0001283
- I know you do.
c0001284
- But I'm not a doctor.
c0001285
I have no special powers,
either.
c0001286
It takes everything in me just
to make Mai happy.
c0001287
And even then I couldn't
handle that one single job.
c0001288
That's why--that's why,
Shoko-san...
c0001289
- Go on.
c0001290
- As much as I wish I could,
I just can't help you.
c0001291
- And that's exactly how
it should be.
c0001292
[sniffles]
c0001293
Why am I--I already decided
on this.
c0001294
- Shoko-san.
c0001295
[groaning]
c0001296
[gasps]
c0001297
-
It appears the dose
I snuck in earlier has begun
c0001298
to take effect.
c0001299
In order to send you
to the present,
c0001300
I just needed to break you away
from the ordinary logic
c0001301
that keeps you from trying
to perceive current time.
c0001302
The only place where you can
truly toss the ordinary aside
c0001303
is a dream.
c0001304
- Shoko-san.
c0001305
- Don't worry about me now.
c0001306
I will be all right.
c0001307
When you return to the present,
c0001308
the first thing you need to do
c0001309
is look for someone
that can find you.
c0001310
Good night.
Sweet dreams, Sakuta.
c0001311
- [gasps]
c0001312
[groaning]
c0001313
[clock ticking]
c0001314
[gasps]
c0001315
DECEMBER 24TH
[gasps]
c0001316
DECEMBER 24TH
c0001317
[groans]
Did I...
c0001318
Really go back?
c0001319
- 'Scuse me, ma'am.
He jammed his finger.
c0001320
- Kunimi.
- Let's get it iced.
c0001321
Have a seat there.
- [groans]
c0001322
Ow, that stings.
- Hey, Kunimi.
c0001323
Huh?
c0001324
What's going on?
c0001325
- The first thing you need to do
c0001326
is look for someone
that can find you.
c0001327
- So we're talking
quantum theory.
c0001328
Right now half of me is in
the future
c0001329
and the other half
is in the present.
c0001330
Until someone observes me,
c0001331
my existence will
remain unconfirmed.
c0001332
[whooshes]
c0001333
DECEMBER 24TH
c0001334
Futaba!
c0001335
Hey, Futaba!
Notice me!
c0001336
Futaba!
c0001337
[grunts]
c0001338
PAST — 12/24
PRESENT — FUTURE
[grunts]
c0001339
PAST — 12/24
PRESENT — FUTURE
c0001340
Thanks for that.
c0001341
I'm gonna borrow this.
c0001342
[groans]
c0001343
Mm?
c0001344
Damn. So I can't use it?
c0001345
Looks like I'll be starting out
on hard mode.
c0001346
[breathing heavily]
c0001347
I guess I'll follow Mai's
example for this one.
c0001348
Someone, please!
Is there anyone that can see me?
c0001349
I don't care who!
c0001350
Anyone that can see me?
c0001351
Is there anyone that can
at least hear my voice?
c0001352
Excuse me!
Can you see me?
c0001353
Look at me! Look!
c0001354
All I want is to save Mai!
c0001355
Please help me!
[gasping]
c0001356
[gasps]
c0001357
Someone please come and find me.
c0001358
[gasps]
Come find me.
c0001359
Anybody, please.
c0001360
I beg you.
c0001361
[groaning]
c0001362
- Sakuta, what are you doing?
c0001363
- [gasps]
Koga?
c0001364
W--wait, you can actually
see me?
c0001365
- What do you mean?
Of course I can.
c0001366
Are you all right?
c0001367
- [gasps]
Let me touch you!
c0001368
- [gasps]
- Just for a sec!
c0001369
- What?
- [panicked breathing]
c0001370
- So here's the thing.
c0001371
I had a dream about you
last night.
c0001372
- A dream?
c0001373
- Where you were in trouble at
the train station.
c0001374
- [grunts]
- I came 'cause I just couldn't
c0001375
get it out of my head.
c0001376
- Quantum entanglement.
- What's that?
c0001377
- It just means everyone needs
a cute underclassman
c0001378
you've shared butt kicks with.
c0001379
- Sheesh, forget about
that already.
c0001380
- Koga.
c0001381
I have a favor to ask you.
- Huh?
c0001382
Huh? No, wait!
[grunts]
c0001383
Hmm?
c0001384
- I want you to go and meet
with my other self.
c0001385
- Huh?
c0001386
I can't believe it!
c0001387
There really is another one
of you here!
c0001388
- Please put the other me on
the phone.
c0001389
- Explain this all to me later!
c0001390
- Are you really me?
c0001391
- I am.
c0001392
From four days in the future.
c0001393
- Four days?
c0001394
That means you--
- Yeah.
c0001395
I know exactly what's going
to happen today after this call.
c0001396
- [grunts]
- And that's why I came here.
c0001397
So I could change the future.
- Hold on.
c0001398
Then I didn't get into
an accident?
c0001399
- Right before I got hit by
the car,
c0001400
Mai pushed me out of the way
to save me.
c0001401
- [gasps]
- Because of that,
c0001402
I'm still alive.
c0001403
That's why you can't go
to the aquarium no matter what.
c0001404
- But I--
- If you do,
c0001405
Mai will die in my place.
c0001406
- But if I don't go then what's
going to happen to Makinohara?
c0001407
- I made up my mind.
c0001408
- You're me, aren't you?
What are you thinking?
c0001409
Do you not care what happens
to her?
c0001410
- What I want most
is to make Mai happy.
c0001411
And I can't do anything
for Makinohara.
c0001412
- Are you really me?
Something is wrong with you!
c0001413
You're insane!
- Maybe.
c0001414
I don't care if I am.
c0001415
If I can live
and make Mai happy, it's fine.
c0001416
- I'd rather get into
that accident
c0001417
than watch Makinohara die.
c0001418
- Even if it hurts Mai?
c0001419
- Just make sure you stop her
at all costs!
c0001420
[phone receiver clicks]
[phone beeping]
c0001421
- I really don't get it, do I?
c0001422
- I'm on a break right now.
Need something?
c0001423
- Do you know where Mai's
at right now?
c0001424
- The TV station, right?
- Can you tell me which one?
c0001425
I wanna go over and see her.
c0001426
- Huh? You can't just show
up out of the blue like that.
c0001427
- That's why I'm asking
the great Nodoka for help.
c0001428
I'm begging you, seriously.
c0001429
I wanna make a surprise visit.
c0001430
- [groans]
c0001431
Is this some kind of prank?
c0001432
- This is the most serious plan
I've made in my whole life.
c0001433
- [grunts]
c0001434
Well, it spares me some trouble,
so it's fine, I guess.
c0001435
- [gasps]
c0001436
Hurry up and get in!
c0001437
We'll go into the station saying
that you're filming crew.
c0001438
- Thank you.
c0001439
- Please properly make up with
her this time, 'kay?
c0001440
[knocking]
c0001441
Excuse me.
c0001442
I have a guest here to see you,
Mai.
c0001443
- Nodoka?
c0001444
- I came to deliver
your Christmas present.
c0001445
- Thank you, Nodoka.
c0001446
And Ryoko, too.
c0001447
I'm sorry to have troubled
you again.
c0001448
Could you give us
a moment alone?
c0001449
How long do you plan
on doing that?
c0001450
That isn't the real reason
you came back
c0001451
from the future, right?
c0001452
- [gasps]
c0001453
[whimpering]
c0001454
You're here.
c0001455
It really is you.
c0001456
Alive.
c0001457
- I'm so glad.
c0001458
I must have succeeded
in protecting you, Sakuta.
c0001459
- [gasps]
c0001460
- I was finally able
to do something for you.
c0001461
- You mean that you intended
to save me
c0001462
from the very beginning?
c0001463
- I told you before.
c0001464
You really have no idea.
c0001465
I love you a whole lot more
than you could know.
c0001466
- Mai, I...
c0001467
- Let me look at your face.
c0001468
You really haven't aged much,
have you?
c0001469
- I'm from the future,
but only four days.
c0001470
- I see.
c0001471
When I got the voicemail
from Sakuta,
c0001472
he said the future version
of him was around,
c0001473
so I got my hopes up.
c0001474
- If you give me enough time,
I will grow up,
c0001475
so please wait until then.
- [chuckles]
c0001476
I have to get going now.
c0001477
Sakuta and I made plans
for a date tonight.
c0001478
- [grunts]
c0001479
Hold on, Mai!
c0001480
- Ah, let go of me!
c0001481
- It's gonna be all right!
c0001482
- How can it be all right?
c0001483
- [gasps]
c0001484
- If Sakuta knows what
I'm planning,
c0001485
he's just going
to try even harder
c0001486
to sacrifice himself!
It's obvious!
c0001487
He'll think he should be
in that accident.
c0001488
I know it.
c0001489
If he chooses to avoid that fate
and keep living,
c0001490
he'll see it as robbing
Shoko-chan of her future!
c0001491
That's why if I don't go,
Sakuta's going to die!
c0001492
[gasps]
- Mai, you can't go.
c0001493
You need to stay here, please.
c0001494
I'm begging you.
c0001495
I can't take it anymore, Mai.
c0001496
A world without you in it.
c0001497
Don't worry about me.
c0001498
I'll take care of my own self.
c0001499
- And you're fine with that?
c0001500
- That's my choice.
c0001501
So I want you to wait it out.
c0001502
- Is it gonna be all right?
c0001503
- Knowing me, I'll be a mess.
c0001504
I'll come home
in shambles crying.
c0001505
So please hug me like this when
the time comes.
c0001506
Do that and I promise I
will make you happy, Mai.
c0001507
- [grunts]
c0001508
Then I will.
c0001509
- Thank you so much.
c0001510
- But still,
you're making one mistake.
c0001511
Thing is, I don't exactly
need you to make me happy.
c0001512
That isn't the point.
c0001513
- Huh?
c0001514
- The point is
to be happy together.
c0001515
That means you and me, okay?
c0001516
- Oh, man. I really can't
win against you, can I?
c0001517
- I'll wait for you, Sakuta.
c0001518
[distant Christmas
music playing]
c0001519
♪ ♪
c0001520
- [gasps]
c0001521
[chuckles]
c0001522
Sorry to make you wait.
c0001523
- I haven't been here long.
c0001524
Besides, it's still before
the meeting time.
c0001525
- In any case,
c0001526
you sure have a unique
interpretation of dressing up.
c0001527
- I've been wearing it all day.
c0001528
It feels like it's just
a part of me at this point.
c0001529
- I'm sorry.
c0001530
This can only mean
that I failed.
c0001531
- You didn't fail in
the slightest.
c0001532
I wouldn't be here now
if it weren't for you.
c0001533
As the future me.
c0001534
- Sakuta, hold hands with me.
c0001535
- [chuckles]
c0001536
- It's a little embarrassing.
c0001537
- Shoko-san, I'm going to carry
it all with me.
c0001538
The time I spent with you,
the memories--everything.
c0001539
I'll take every last bit
of what you shared with me
c0001540
to the future.
c0001541
- [chuckles]
c0001542
Sakuta, why do you think it is
that people can forget all sorts
c0001543
of things that happened
in their lives?
c0001544
- It doesn't matter
'cause I won't.
c0001545
- I think I know why.
c0001546
They can only tolerate painful
memories for so long.
c0001547
Letting go becomes necessary.
c0001548
- In that case, I don't see any
reason why I would ever forget
c0001549
about you.
- Huh?
c0001550
- Because it's bitter sweet
to me.
c0001551
I mean, it's the memory
of my first love.
c0001552
There's no need to forget.
c0001553
- [gasps]
c0001554
Really, now.
c0001555
There's that twisted personality
of yours.
c0001556
- I need to get going now.
c0001557
- Okay.
c0001558
- Goodbye, Shoko-san.
c0001559
- [grunts]
Bye-bye, Sakuta.
c0001560
- At the quantum level,
c0001561
my two selves will never be able
to meet.
c0001562
But that should also mean that
as long as I'm not recognized,
c0001563
we can exist simultaneously.
c0001564
- [breathing heavily]
c0001565
[tires squealing]
[car horns honking]
c0001566
- [breathing heavily]
- Sakuta, no!
c0001567
- [breathing heavily]
c0001568
[grunts]
c0001569
[crashing]
c0001570
[tires squealing]
[all gasping]
c0001571
[indistinct chatter]
c0001572
- What the--
c0001573
- [groaning]
Did I...
c0001574
I see.
That's what happens.
c0001575
- You okay?
Are you hurt?
c0001576
Hey!
- Don't worry. I'm okay.
c0001577
[gasps]
c0001578
[gasping]
c0001579
I took it away from her.
c0001580
Makinohara's future.
c0001581
But there was no other way
for me.
c0001582
There wasn't.
c0001583
[dramatic music]
c0001584
♪ ♪
c0001585
[sniffles]
c0001586
I'm home.
c0001587
- Welcome back.
c0001588
♪ ♪
c0001589
It's already 10:00.
You should get up.
c0001590
- I know.
I'm awake.
c0001591
- Go eat your breakfast before
it gets cold, okay?
c0001592
I have to head to school.
c0001593
- Isn't it winter break
right now, though?
c0001594
- I was absent yesterday because
of work.
c0001595
I need to go pick up
my report card.
c0001596
- Then I'll go with you.
c0001597
Futaba.
c0001598
- Azusagawa.
c0001599
[gasps]
c0001600
- Uh, whoa, there.
c0001601
You all right?
c0001602
- I'm not.
c0001603
- Futaba.
c0001604
- I'm not all right!
c0001605
- I'm sorry
for making you worry.
c0001606
- I'm not all right.
c0001607
I really thought I
would never see you again.
c0001608
I'm glad I was wrong.
c0001609
That you're still alive.
c0001610
Yesterday, what happened?
c0001611
- So much, to be honest.
c0001612
Where do I even begin?
c0001613
Just know there was something
that needed to be done
c0001614
and I did it.
c0001615
- So, uh, which one are you?
c0001616
- Both of them.
c0001617
Because we fused.
c0001618
- I don't flipping get it.
c0001619
- Sorry I put you through all
of that.
c0001620
I really appreciate what you
did, Koga.
c0001621
- Here you go.
c0001622
Some souvenirs from Grandma.
c0001623
She said to say hi to big
brother's girlfriend, too.
c0001624
- Oh, I've had those!
c0001625
You'll really like 'em, big sis.
c0001626
They're tasty!
- Oh, man.
c0001627
You're clinging onto Mai more
than usual today, Toyohama.
c0001628
Did your sister obsession
get even worse?
c0001629
- She said she had a bad dream
this morning.
c0001630
One where I got into
a traffic accident.
c0001631
- [gasps]
c0001632
I see.
c0001633
Can't do much about that.
c0001634
My Mai can spoil you all
you want just for today.
c0001635
- Well, I don't need
your permission, Sakuta.
c0001636
- Nodoka, feel free
to step on Sakuta's foot.
c0001637
- Uh, what?
[both laughing]
c0001638
DECEMBER 26TH
- Uh, what?
[both laughing]
c0001639
DECEMBER 26TH
c0001640
[freezer humming]
c0001641
- I really hope that
Shoko-chan's able to get better.
c0001642
- [grunts]
Oh?
c0001643
[gasps]
c0001644
- Is something wrong?
- This is...
c0001645
Hey, Futaba.
c0001646
Makinohara's puberty syndrome
c0001647
is still unresolved
at this point, isn't it?
c0001648
The one writing and erasing
the sentences on that print-out
c0001649
is the her that's back
in fourth grade.
c0001650
Am I right?
c0001651
Makinohara from three years
in the past
c0001652
is anxious about her future.
c0001653
And that's the true root cause
c0001654
of her puberty syndrome,
correct?
c0001655
- Azusagawa, do you understand
what you're implying with that?
c0001656
- The place we're in right now
is not really the present.
c0001657
It's the future.
c0001658
So wouldn't that mean that
if we were able to save
c0001659
the present Makinohara
that's in fourth grade
c0001660
then the Makinohara
in seventh grade
c0001661
that's current to us would also
be saved?
c0001662
- This is different than keeping
c0001663
a traffic accident
from happening.
c0001664
It's a disease. It's not going
c0001665
to magically heal simply
by restarting.
c0001666
- Toyohama mentioned on
Christmas that she had a dream
c0001667
where Mai got into
a traffic accident.
c0001668
Doesn't that mean there's
a chance memories can stay
c0001669
with people who weren't
directly involved?
c0001670
- I mean, I had
a similar dream myself.
c0001671
One where I brought
a traumatized version
c0001672
of you from your house over
to mine.
c0001673
- Then--
- But still,
c0001674
even if pieces of current
Azusagawa's memories
c0001675
could be sent to Azusagawa
from three years ago,
c0001676
I'm sure nothing would change.
c0001677
It can't be changed. Besides--
- Besides?
c0001678
- Even if you were able
to change the past,
c0001679
and Shoko-chan really was able
to overcome her illness,
c0001680
would you be okay with that,
Azusagawa?
c0001681
- You need to think carefully
about the consequences.
c0001682
If the fourth-grade Shoko-chan
c0001683
doesn't develop
puberty syndrome,
c0001684
that means you'll never
have met Shoko-san
c0001685
as Shichirigahama Beach,
doesn't it?
c0001686
If you never met Shoko-san,
c0001687
you would never
have considered applying
c0001688
for Minegahara High School,
c0001689
which would mean you'd also
never have met me or Kunimi.
c0001690
And the same goes for Sakurajima
as well, you know.
c0001691
Are you telling me that
would all be okay with you?
c0001692
- No, of course it wouldn't.
But I--
c0001693
- Are you honestly willing
to risk all
c0001694
of your precious memories
for a possibility so minuscule,
c0001695
it may not even exist at all?
- [exhales]
c0001696
[phone ringing]
c0001697
[phone receiver clicks]
c0001698
Hello. Azusagawa.
c0001699
- Hello?
This is Makinohara calling.
c0001700
- Oh, you must be
Makinohara's mother.
c0001701
- Um, can you come
and visit Shoko?
c0001702
- Did something happen to her?
c0001703
- The doctor said Shoko probably
doesn't have much longer.
c0001704
[crying]
c0001705
- [exhales]
c0001706
[dramatic piano music]
c0001707
♪ ♪
c0001708
Mai, you know, I really do want
to save Makinohara after all.
c0001709
- Yeah, I
know.
c0001710
If that's what you want to do,
I'm okay with it.
c0001711
You can go and change the past.
c0001712
I don't care if everything
that's happened up until now
c0001713
is erased from time.
c0001714
- You mean--
c0001715
- You promised me that day,
right?
c0001716
That the two of us would
find happiness together.
c0001717
That's still going to happen
for us.
c0001718
We just have to take
a little detour.
c0001719
- Yeah, a small one.
c0001720
- It's no big deal.
c0001721
We're simply wiping
the slate clean
c0001722
and starting fresh.
c0001723
- Exactly.
That's all there is to it.
c0001724
- When we do, I'll meet you
once again, Sakuta.
c0001725
- Yeah.
- Which means I'll fall in love
c0001726
with you again.
- Yeah.
c0001727
- And you'll confess your love
to me once again.
c0001728
- I will. I'll make sure
to find you again.
c0001729
- And when you do, we'll find
that happiness together.
c0001730
- That I can promise you.
c0001731
- Shoko, Azusagawa just got here
to see you.
c0001732
- Huh.
c0001733
[grunts]
c0001734
- Makinohara.
c0001735
- Hello.
c0001736
You kept your promise, huh?
c0001737
That you'd come and visit
me here every day.
c0001738
My mom filled me in earlier.
c0001739
- There were some days
I couldn't come because
c0001740
of work, though.
c0001741
- Thank you for doing that.
c0001742
- So, uh, remember the schedule
of the future homework you asked
c0001743
for advice about a while back?
c0001744
- Sakuta, I just had this really
drawn-out dream.
c0001745
- [gasps]
c0001746
- It was so strange, too.
c0001747
I was a high school student
at first
c0001748
at Shichirigahama Beach.
c0001749
I was trying to cheer you up
and poking fun at you, too.
c0001750
Then later on I was in college.
c0001751
I ended up staying over
at your place
c0001752
where I cooked a lot of meals
and cleaned up
c0001753
as if it were my own.
c0001754
- [gasps]
c0001755
- We went to a chapel that had
an ocean view, too.
c0001756
There I got to put on
a wedding dress.
c0001757
You were red in the face
c0001758
and you told me
I looked beautiful.
c0001759
Even if it was a dream,
c0001760
spending my days with you
was so much fun.
c0001761
- It wasn't just a dream.
Makinohara--
c0001762
- It really was incredible.
c0001763
- I'm serious. All of those
things happened in real life.
c0001764
- Yes, I
know, Sakuta.
I'm fully aware.
c0001765
- Huh?
- I understand it all.
c0001766
That what I dreamed
was my actual future life.
c0001767
And also that the current time
is the future.
c0001768
It all makes sense now.
c0001769
- That's right!
It's all true!
c0001770
That's why if we can change
the past,
c0001771
we might still be able to find
a way to save you, Makinohara.
c0001772
- Even if you redo the past,
c0001773
I don't think curing my illness
is going to be quite so simple.
c0001774
Although,
the overwhelming sadness
c0001775
you're carrying is different.
c0001776
I do believe I can at least
rescue you from this pain.
c0001777
- What are you saying?
c0001778
- I can see it all.
c0001779
That I caused you agony
all along, didn't I?
c0001780
- You're wrong.
c0001781
None of this
is your fault at all.
c0001782
- So much happened because
of my puberty syndrome.
c0001783
It's the whole reason you
and I even met to begin with.
c0001784
- I don't regret
meeting Shoko-san.
c0001785
I never have.
Not for an instant.
c0001786
- Sakuta, you sure put in
a valiant effort.
c0001787
- [gasps]
c0001788
- So you see,
it's all right now.
c0001789
I'll do it.
c0001790
I'll redo things properly
this time.
c0001791
So I can create a future where
I never meet you at all.
c0001792
[sniffles]
c0001793
A future where you don't have
to feel deep sorrow
c0001794
like this anymore.
c0001795
- Hold on!
You've got it wrong!
c0001796
That's not what I
was trying to say.
c0001797
I'm okay redoing things
for your sake, Makinohara.
c0001798
- Please leave it to me.
I'll take care of everything.
c0001799
No matter what,
I'll make you happy, Sakuta.
c0001800
So please just...
c0001801
- [gasps]
c0001802
Makinohara?
c0001803
c0001804
[door slides open]
c0001805
- How was Shoko-chan?
c0001806
- She fell asleep for now.
c0001807
- I see.
c0001808
Sakuta, look.
c0001809
- [gasps]
c0001810
SOMEDAY, I WANT TO BE A
KIND PERSON. I WILL LIVE ON,
- [gasps]
c0001811
SOMEDAY, I WANT TO BE A
KIND PERSON. I WILL LIVE ON,
c0001812
CHERISHING THE PHRASES
"THANK YOU,"
c0001813
"YOU DID YOUR BEST,"
c0001814
AND "I LOVE YOU."
c0001815
The heck is this?
c0001816
Why?
c0001817
- I talked
to Shoko-chan's mother.
c0001818
Yesterday Shoko-chan
suddenly mentioned she wanted
c0001819
to finish her homework.
c0001820
- What can I do?
c0001821
What can I do to save Makinohara
from this?
c0001822
From the very start,
she knew everything.
c0001823
All about Shoko-san,
about herself,
c0001824
and even about how she might
be able to change the past.
c0001825
- I'm sorry.
c0001826
But this is the only thing
I can come up with.
c0001827
Shoko-chan really
did do her best.
c0001828
That's why what I think you
should do is finish her homework
c0001829
for her, Sakuta.
c0001830
Please let her know you saw
how hard she worked.
c0001831
- [exhales]
c0001832
I think...
c0001833
[dramatic music]
c0001834
♪ ♪
c0001835
[gasping]
c0001836
- [gasping]
c0001837
[laughs]
c0001838
- [gasps]
c0001839
[laughing]
c0001840
[both laughing]
c0001841
[grunts]
c0001842
Guess it's the new year.
[grunts]
c0001843
[dramatic music]
c0001844
♪ ♪
c0001845
c0001846
CHALLENGE MYSELF TO CAKE-BAKING IN HIGH SCHOOL
c0001847
- Ma'am, I finished mine!
- Me, too!
c0001848
- Same here!
c0001849
[chatter and laughter]
c0001850
- I'm all done!
c0001851
JANUARY 6TH
c0001852
[door creaks open]
c0001853
- Big brother.
It's morning.
c0001854
- Who cares?
It's still winter break.
c0001855
- You're the one that said your
part-time job started today.
c0001856
- Are you planning on practicing
going to school now, Kaede?
c0001857
- I already did.
c0001858
I'm still super nervous
but I made it to
c0001859
the school gates today.
c0001860
- Good morning.
c0001861
Run away from home or something?
c0001862
- I already ran away from home.
c0001863
I'm on my way to Saitama
to do a little mall concert.
c0001864
[laughs]
c0001865
- Sakuta, you don't usually work
the morning shift.
c0001866
- You, too.
What happened to practice?
c0001867
- It's in the afternoon.
c0001868
- Koga, coming late like
an exec.
c0001869
- [grunts]
My shift just started!
c0001870
- Hmm.
- W--what?
c0001871
- Well, it's just
that you look round.
c0001872
Is that mochi-smooth skin from
the holiday mochi you ate?
c0001873
- You really are the worst,
Sakuta!
c0001874
Heck off!
c0001875
[doorbell chimes]
- Mm?
c0001876
Hello, welcome in.
[gasps]
c0001877
- I'm gonna go
with the hearty carbonara.
c0001878
S--sorry.
c0001879
I'll do this instead, actually.
c0001880
- You don't need
to go on some restrictive diet.
c0001881
I don't think you became round
or anything.
c0001882
Ah, I get it.
c0001883
- I'll be sure to inform
Sakurajima that you were looking
c0001884
at me with lewd
eyes immediately.
c0001885
- I'd appreciate it
if you don't
c0001886
'cause we have a New Year's
shrine date later
c0001887
and she'll scold me.
c0001888
- That means it's better
if I tell her, isn't it?
c0001889
- Well--
- Oh, Azusagawa.
c0001890
You really are a rascal.
c0001891
- [gasps]
- What is it?
c0001892
- Do you think you could lend me
some change?
c0001893
I gave mine as a donation
at Fujisawa Station.
c0001894
- Okay, then just use a bill.
c0001895
- [shouting]
c0001896
Ah--
c0001897
[moans]
c0001898
- Did you make enough wishes
for your 1,000 yen?
c0001899
- I at least made an adamant
wish that I wouldn't encounter
c0001900
so many strange and stressful
incidents in the new year.
c0001901
- There certainly were a lot.
c0001902
But it's thanks to one of those
that you were able to meet me.
c0001903
- I think at this point
I've had my fill
c0001904
of wild bunny girls, though.
c0001905
[both laughing]
c0001906
- You really love the ocean,
don't you, Sakuta?
c0001907
- Not nearly as much
as I love you, though, Mai.
c0001908
- I guess you really love
that high school girl
c0001909
you saw in your dreams.
c0001910
This is the spot
where you two went
c0001911
on all those dates, isn't it?
c0001912
- I mean, yeah, but they
all happened in my dreams.
c0001913
But Mai, you're quite fond
of this place, too, aren't you?
c0001914
- In my case I'm only attached
to this place because
c0001915
I spent some time filming
a movie out here.
c0001916
A girl with heart disease
awaiting a donor.
c0001917
When I first received the offer,
c0001918
I got this feeling I had
to play this role.
c0001919
- I totally bawled watching it.
c0001920
And everyone else in
the theater cried, too.
c0001921
- Even to this day,
I don't get it.
c0001922
Why I felt that I had
to play that role so strongly.
c0001923
I wanted to do something,
though.
c0001924
It's like how you donate money.
c0001925
- Running is dangerous!
Careful!
c0001926
- Please just watch your step!
- It's okay! I'm fine!
c0001927
Dad, Mom!
Come on, let's go!
c0001928
Over here!
c0001929
- [gasps]
c0001930
- Sakuta?
c0001931
- That girl.
c0001932
- [laughing]
Hey, hurry up!
c0001933
- Someone you know?
c0001934
- It's not.
c0001935
[gasps]
c0001936
[dramatic music]
c0001937
[shudders]
c0001938
♪ ♪
c0001939
Makinohara!
c0001940
- [gasps]
c0001941
[whimpers]
c0001942
[crying]
c0001943
Yes, Sakuta!
c0001944
[laughing]
c0001945
- [singing in Japanese]
c0001946
["Fukashigi no Carte" plays]
c0001947
♪ ♪
c0001948
c0001949
♪ ♪
c0001950
c0001951
♪ ♪
c0001952
c0001953
♪ ♪